RISE IN YEMEN, SUICIDE BOMBERS
TARGET MOSQUES, LEAVING HUNDREDS
OF CASUALTIES DURING WEEKLY
PRAYERS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, FRACKING RULES FOR
FEDERAL LANDS NEW RESTRICTIONS
TO REGULATE AMERICA'S OIL AND
GAS BOOM.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE,
TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS:
>> LOOK, I AM NOT AN IDEOLOGUE.
I AM AN ORIGINALIST.
>> Woodruff: REALITY AND FICTION
TAKE THE DRAMA OF THE SUPREME
COURT TO THE STAGE IN A NEW PLAY
ABOUT THE COMBATIVE,
CONSERVATIVE JUSTICE ANTONIN
SCALIA.
>> I TELL PEOPLE WHAT THEY DON'T
WANT TO HEAR, THAT'S WHAT MAKES
ME A MONSTER.
THAT'S HOW HALF THE COUNTRY SEE
ME: COMBATIVE, LAW AND ORDER
CONSERVATIVE.
AND THAT'S WHAT THE OTHER HALF
SEES ME AS A HERO.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS A DAY OF
TERROR HE
REBEL T.V. IN THE CITY REPORTS
AT LEAST 137 PEOPLE DIED, AND
SOME 350 WERE WOUNDED IN A WAVE
OF BOMBINGS.
A STUNNED WITNESS SAID: "BLOOD
WAS RUNNING LIKE A RIVER."
>> Woodruff: IT WAS THE
DEADLIIEST ATTACK IN DECADES, IN
A COUNTRY TORN BY STRIFE.
THE BOMBINGS ROCKED TWO CROWDED
MOSQUES DURING FRIDAY PRAYERS.
AMID THE CARNAGE, MEN
FRANTICALLY TENDED TO THE
WOUNDED, BLOOD AND DEBRIS
LITTERED THE STREET,
AND WITNESSES TRIED TO MAKE
SENSE OF WHAT HAPPENED.
>> ( translated ): WE WERE IN
THE MOSQUE DURING THE SERMON, WE
FIRST HEARD AN EXPLOSION
OUTSIDE, NEAR THE SECURITY
PERIMETER.
WHEN THE FIRST EXPLOSION
HAPPENED, THEY USED THE CHAOS
AND THE VACUUM TO ENTER THE
MOSQUE IN THE MIDDLE OF PRAYER
AND BLOW US UP FROM INSIDE THE
BUILDING.
>> Woodruff: BOTH MOSQUES ARE
CONTROLLED BY SHIITE HOUTHI
REBELS, WHO STORMED THE CAPITAL
LAST FALL AND ARE SAID TO HAVE
IRAN'S BACKING.
THE REBELS CONTROL A GROWING
SWATH OF NORTHERN YEMEN, AND
HAVE EXTENDED THEIR REACH
WESTWARD.
THEY'VE BATTLED THE SUNNI-
-QAEDA IN THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA," WHICH HOLDS
SWAY IN MUCH OF CENTRAL YEMEN.
ADDING TO THE CHAOS: THE ISLAMIC
STATE" GROUP,  ALSO SUNNI,
CLAIMED TODAY'S BOMBINGS, AND
WARNED OF A FLOOD OF ATTACKS TO
OUST THE HOUTHIS.
THAT DREW A SKEPTICAL RESPONSE
IN WASHINGTON.
>> IT DOES APPEAR THAT THESE
KINDS OF CLAIMS ARE OFTEN MADE
FOR A PERCEPTION THAT THEY HAVE,
THAT IT BENEFITS THEIR
PROPAGANDA EFFORTS.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. HAS
STRUGGLED TO MAINTAIN ANY
INFLUENCE IN YEMEN, THROUGH
PRESIDENT ABD RABBUH MANSUR
HADI.
FORCES LOYAL TO HIM ARE FIGHTING
TO MAINTAIN A POWER BASE IN THE
SOUTH.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT THE CHAOS IN YEMEN,
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
IRAN, THE U.S. AND FIVE OTHER
POWERS BROKE OFF NUCLEAR TALKS
IN SWITZERLAND TODAY.
THE IRANIAN DELEGATION RETURNED
HOME FOR THE FUNERAL OF THEIR
PRESIDENT'S MOTHER.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID THE DISCUSSIONS HAD BEEN
"VERY PRODUCTIVE," AND IN
WASHINGTON, HIS SPOKESMAN URGED
PATIENCE.
>> WE'RE FOCUSED ON THE DEADLINE
AT THE END OF MARCH AND THAT'S
WHY, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE THE
INTENTION TO GO BACK AND RESUME
TALKS SO WE'RE FOCUSED ON THAT
AND FOCUSED ON GETTING A GOOD
DEAL.
>> Woodruff: NEGOTIATIONS RESUME
NEXT WEDNESDAY.
IN THE MEANTIME, KERRY IS SET TO
MEET WITH HIS EUROPEAN
COUNTERPARTS IN LONDON TOMORROW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED TODAY FOR
IRAN TO RELEASE THREE AMERICAN
CITIZENS.
HE TIMED THE APPEAL TO COINCIDE
WITH THE IRANIAN NEW YEAR.
ONE OF THE AMERICANS IS JASON
REZAIAN, A "WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTER BEING HELD ON
UNSPECIFIED CHARGES.
THE OTHERS ARE A FORMER MARINE
CONVICTED OF SPYING FOR THE
C.I.A. AND A MINISTER FOUND
GUILTY OF SETTING UP CHURCHES IN
IRAN.
POLICE IN AFGHANISTAN HAVE
ARRESTED SEVEN PEOPLE IN THE
BRUTAL DEATH OF AN AFGHAN WOMAN.
THIS GRAPHIC VIDEO SHOWS A MOB
BEATING AND KICKING THE WOMAN,
YESTERDAY.
IT HAPPENED OUTSIDE A MOSQUE IN
CENTRAL KABUL.
THE VICTIM'S BODY WAS LATER SET
ON FIRE AND THROWN INTO A RIVER.
THE CROWD APPARENTLY ACCUSED HER
OF INSULTING ISLAM BY BURNING A
KORAN; A POLICE INVESTIGATOR
SAID SHE'D BEEN SEEING A
PSYCHIATRIST FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
>> Woodruff: IN INDIA, A SCANDAL
HAS ERUPTED OVER CHEATING ON
CRUCIAL HIGH SCHOOL EXAMS.
AUTHORITIES SAID TODAY MORE THAN
1,000 TENTH GRADERS HAVE BEEN
EXPELLED THIS WEEK.
THE ISSUE EXPLODED INTO VIEW
WITH VIDEO OF DOZENS OF PEOPLE
SCALING THE WALLS OF A TESTING
CENTER IN BIHAR STATE.
THEY COULD BE SEEN PASSING, OR
EVEN THROWING, ANSWERS TO
STUDENTS THROUGH OPEN WINDOWS.
BUT THE STATE EDUCATION MINISTER
SAID IT'S HARD TO STOP.
>> ( translated ): THERE ARE
MORE THAN 1.4 MILLION STUDENTS
SITTING FOR EXAMS,
THREE TO FOUR PEOPLE HELPING A
SINGLE STUDENT WOULD MEAN THAT
THERE ARE A TOTAL OF SIX TO
SEVEN MILLION PEOPLE HELPING
STUDENTS CHEAT.
IS IT THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
GOVERNMENT ALONE TO MANAGE SUCH
A HUGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE AND TO
CONDUCT A 100% FREE AND FAIR
EXAMINATION?
>> Woodruff: REPORTS OF CHEATING
HAVE INCREASED SINCE THE
GOVERNMENT BEGAN OFFERING CASH
TO POOR STUDENTS WHO PERFORM
WELL.
THEY HAVE TO PASS THE EXAMS TO
CONTINUE THEIR EDUCATION.
FROM ROME TO MOSCOW, MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE ACROSS EUROPE WERE
TREATED TO A COSMIC PHENOMENON
TODAY: A FULL, SOLAR ECLIPSE.
PEOPLE ON THE NORWEGIAN
ARCHIPELAGO OF SVALBARD HAD THE
BEST VIEW OF ALL.
IT WAS ONE OF ONLY TWO LOCATIONS
ON THE PLANET WHERE THE MOON
TOTALLY ECLIPSED THE SUN.
AND, ON WALL STREET, IT WASN'T
THE ECLIPSE, BUT A RECOVERY IN
OIL PRICES THAT LED THE BROADER
MARKET HIGHER.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED ALMOST 170 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 18,100.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 34, AND THE S-
AND-P 500 ADDED ABOUT 19.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED 2%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 3%.
AND THE S-AND-P ADDED NEARLY 3%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
POWER STRUGGLES, ETHNIC TENSIONS
AND VIOLENCE ON THE RISE IN
YEMEN;
NEW RULES FOR FRACKING ON
FEDERAL LAND;
THE INSPIRING STORY OF A
TEENAGER WHO OPENED UP ACCESS TO
HIS SCHOOL;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
A NEW PLAY DRAMATIZES THE LIFE
AND WORK OF SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE ANTONIN SCALIA;
A LOOK AT IMPORTANT STORIES AND
NEWS NOT TRENDING ONLINE;
AND, PARENTS STRUGGLE WITH HOW
TO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN ABOUT
RACIAL PROFILING.
>> Woodruff: WE WANT TO TAKE A
CLOSER LOOK AT TODAY'S VIOLENCE
IN YEMEN AND WHAT IT SAYS ABOUT
THE STATE OF THE REGION.
JOINING ME NOW IS NABEEL KHOURY.
HE HAD A CAREER IN THE FOREIGN
SERVICE AND WAS THE DEPUTY CHIEF
OF MISSION IN YEMEN FOR THE
STATE DEPARTMENT FROM
2004 TO 2007.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> HAPPY TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: SO A TERRIBLE
SITUATION TODAY.
OVER 130 WERE KILLED, OVER 300
WOUNDED, WORSE VIOLENCE IN
DECADES.
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THIS?
>> WELL, THIS ATTACK WAS
PERPETRATED AGAINST THE HOUTHI
PRINCIPAL WHO ARE IN CHARGE IN
SANAA.
A SOFT TARGET WAS CHOSEN MEANING
A MOSQUE WHERE ZADI GO, A PART
OF SHIITE ISLAM, THEY BROKE OFF
SHIITE ISLAM CENTURIES AGO.
>> Woodruff: SO IT'S A
VULNERABLE SITE, THESE MOSQUES.
>> THEY'RE VULNERABLE BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT WELL PROTECTED.
ALSO I THINK THE ATTACKERS,
PROBABLY I.S.I.S., NEED TO
INJECT A SECTARIAN TONE TO THE
CHAOS AND THE FIGHTING ALREADY
TAKING PLACE.
UP TILL NOW, YEMENEES HAVE NOT
LIKELY BEEN AGAINST EACH OTHER.
THEY'RE DIVIDED TRIBALLY AND
ACCORDING TO REGIONS OF THE
COUNTRY, BUT THE FACT IS THE
NORTH HAS A LOT OF SAIDY MUSLIMS
AND THE SOUTH SUNNI, AND
I.S.I.S. IS LIKELY TRYING TO
PLAY ON THAT AND RECRUIT SUNNI
FUNDAMENTALISTS.
>> Woodruff: I.S.I.S. HAVING
SUNNI ROOTS.
BUT, YOU KNOW, TODAY, I.S.I.S.
MADE A STATEMENT CLAIMING
RESPONSIBILITY.
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE, FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION, WE HEARD
SKEPTICISM ABOUT THAT, THAT THEY
WEREN'T READY TO ACCEPT.
>> THERE'S ALWAYS SKEPTICISM
WHEN SOMETHING LIKE THAT HAPPENS
AND BEFORE ANY REAL INTELLIGENCE
COMES IN OR ANY REAL INDICATION,
ANY REAL PROOF, BUT SO I THINK,
AT THIS POINT, THOUGH, SINCE I
DON'T WORK FOR THE WHITE HOUSE,
I CAN SPECULATE AND ANALYZE.
I THINK IT'S LIKELY I.S.I.S.
DOESN'T HAVE A MAJOR PRESENCE IN
YEMEN BUT HAVE DECLARED THE
BEGINNING OF A CELL FOR
THEMSELVES THERE, THEY ARE
COMPETING WITH AL QUAIDA FOR
INFLUENCE AND I WOULDN'T BE
SURPRISED IF IT WAS A SMALL
GROUP OF THEM THAT DID THIS.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THAT FIT
IN WITH WHAT I.S.I.S. IS DOING?
WE KNOW THEY'RE VERY ACTIVE IN
IRAQ AND SIR.  I CAN'T HOW DOES
THIS FIT INTO THAT?
YOU SAID THEY CALLED IT A
"CELL."
DOES THAT MEAN THEY'RE TIGHTLY
CONNECTED TO IRAQ, SYRIA,
I.S.I.S., OR NOT?
>> WELL, THEY COULD BE TIGHTLY
CONNECTED OR SIMPLY YEMENEES
INSPIRED BY I.S.I.S.
I.S.I.S. IS NORTH IN SYRIA AND
IN IRAQ BUT DECLARED THEY WOULD
LIKE TO ESTABLISH AN ISLAMIC
CALIPHATE ALL OVER THE ISLAMIC
WORLD.
SO HAVING A FOOTHOLD IN YEMEN
WOULD BE GOOD FOR THE EXPANSION.
BUT YEMEN IS SO CHAOTIC AND
THERE ARE SO MANY FIGHTING
FACTIONS THERE THAT I.S.I.S.
WILL PROBABLY NOT MAKE A BIG
DENT THERE.
>> Woodruff: WHERE DOES THIS
LEAVE THE SITUATION, THOUGH, IN
YEMEN, BECAUSE YOU HAVE THE
PRESIDENT WHO'S FLED THE
CAPITAL --
>> FLED THE PALACE IN THE SOUTH.
>> Woodruff: FLED THE PALACE
IN THE SOUTH.
YOU HAVE AL QUAIDA IN THE NORTH.
THE HOUTHIS HAVE TAKEN OVER.
WHO'S IN CHARGE?
>> WELL, THE HOUTHIS ARE IN
CHARGE IN SANAA AND NORTH OF
SANAA ALL THE WAY TO THE SAUDI
BORDER.
BUT IN SANAA ITSELF, THEY ARE
NOT FULLY IN CHARGE.
THEY HAVE TAKEN OVER GOVERNMENT
OFFICES AND ARMY BARRACKS, BUT
THEY ARE CHALLENGED EVERY DAY.
SO FOR THE SOUTH, IN OTHER WORDS
THE AREAS IN THE SOUTH, THERE
ARE FACTIONS ALL AGAINST THE
HOUTHIS BUT THEY ARE NOT UNITED.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT ABOUT
THE UNITED STATES?
THE U.S. WAS SEEN AS BACKING THE
PRESIDENT WHO'S NOT IN -- WHO'S
NOWHERE TO BE FOUND NOW.
WHAT IS THE U.S. POLICY IN
YEMEN?
>> WELL, THE U.S. POLICY IS TO
CLING ON TO THE LEGITIMACY OF
THE PRESIDENCY OF PRESIDENT HADI
IN YEMEN BECAUSE HE WAS
GENUINELY ELECTED BY HIS PEOPLE.
THE U.S. POSITION IS ALSO TO
CLING TO THE NATIONAL DIALOGUE,
THE NEGOTIATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
GOING ON BETWEEN VARIOUS
FACTIONS OF YEMEN LED BY THE
UNITED NATIONS ENVOY.
BUT REALISTICALLY, THE PRESIDENT
OF YEMEN NO LONGER CONTROLS EVEN
A QUARTER OF YEMEN AND THE
NATIONAL HAS COME TO AN END.
A STRUGGLE FOR POWER IN YEMEN,
THE HUSSEINYS ARE THE STRONGEST
IN THE COUNTRY.
IF THEY ARE NOT SERIOUSLY
OPPOSED, THEY COULD TAKE OVER
THE WHOLE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: SO WE WATCH TO
SEE HOW U.S. POLICY DEVELOPS.
>> THE U.S. SO FAR HAS NOT HAD
ANY CONTACTS WITH THE HOUTHIS,
SO THEM TAKING OVER THE WHOLE
COUNTRY IS NOT GOOD NEWS FOR THE
U.S.
>> Woodruff: NABEEL KHOURY, WE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> HAPPY TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: THE BOOM IN
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING IN THE
UNITED STATES HAS TRANSFORMED
THE ENERGY PICTURE.
IN FACT, THE U.S. IS NOW POISED
TO BECOME THE LARGEST PRODUCER
OF OIL AND GAS IN THE WORLD.
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN INCREASING
WORRIES ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
AND HEALTH RISKS THAT COME WITH
THAT BOOM.
TODAY, THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
ANNOUNCED THE FIRST FEDERAL
REGULATIONS FOR FRACKING.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: FRACKING IS A
TECHNIQUE THAT INVOLVES
INJECTING MILLIONS OF GALLONS OF
WATER, SAND AND CHEMICALS DEEP
UNDERGROUND TO FRACTURE SHALE
ROCK AND RELEASE GAS AND OIL
TODAY'S NEW RULES REGULATE HOW
THE PROCESS SHOULD BE DONE ON
FEDERAL LANDS.
MUCH MORE FRACKING IS ACTUALLY
DONE ON PRIVATE AND STATE
PROPERTY, BUT THE REGULATIONS
ARE SEEN BY SOME AS A TEMPLATE
FOR WIDER DRILLING.
THEY'VE BEEN IN THE WORKS SINCE
THE PRESIDENT'S FIRST TERM.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, THEY'LL
AFFECT THE PRODUCTION OF WELLS
AND WHAT THE INDUSTRY MUST
DISCLOSE ABOUT CHEMICALS AND
WASTEWATER IN THE PROCESS.
WE LOOK AT WHAT'S SIGNIFICANT
ABOUT THEM, AND SOME ANGRY
REACTION IN A NUMBER OF
QUARTERS.
AMY HARDER IS COVERING IT FOR
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL AND
JOINS ME NOW.
SO, AMY, HELP US UNDERSTAND WHY
THESE NEW RULES ARE SIGNIFICANT.
>> WELL, THEY'RE SIGNIFICANT
BECAUSE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
HAS NOT YET REGULATED HYDRAULIC
FRACTURING IN TERMS OF IMPACT ON
GROUNDWATER SUPPLY SO THAT'S
REALLY AT ISSUE HERE.
THE ADMINISTRATION FIRST
PROPOSED THE RULES IN 2013, WE
PROPOSED THEM AGAIN IN 2013, NOW
WITH THE ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY
WE'RE SEEING THE FINAL PRODUCT
OF THAT.
AND WHILE IT ONLY REGULATES OIL
AND GAS DRILLING ON FEDERAL
LANDS WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR 11% OF
THE GAS CONSUMED IN THE COUNTRY
AND 5% OF THE OIL, IT'S STILL
SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE AS YOU SAID
ANALYSTS SAY THIS WILL PROVIDE A
BENCHMARK THAT STATES THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY WILL AIM TO MEET.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT SPECIFIC
TYPE OF CHANGES ARE PEOPLE
LIKELY TO SEE AND HOW DOES IT
AFFECT FRACKING?
>> TWO BIG CHANGES, ONE
CONSIDERED A WIN FOR THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITY AND ONE
INDUSTRY GROUPS AND OIL AND GAS
CONSIDERED A WIN FOR THE
COMPANIES.
INDUSTRY GROUPS AND OIL AND GAS
THE FINAL RULE REQUIRES
COMPANIES.
COMPANIES TO DISCLOSE THE
THE FINAL RULE REQUIRES
CHEMICALS THAT THEY USE IN
COMPANIES TO DISCLOSE THE
FRACKING TO AN INDUSTRY-RUN
CHEMICALS THAT THEY USE IN
WEB SITE CALLED FRACK FOCUS,
FRACKING TO AN INDUSTRY-RUN
INSTEAD OF DIRECTLY TO THE
WEB SITE CALLED FRACK FOCUS,
GOVERNMENT.
INSTEAD OF DIRECTLY TO THE
NOW, ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS WANTED
GOVERNMENT.
THAT TO BE A REQUIREMENT TO
NOW, ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS WANTED
DISCLOSE THOSE CHEMICALS
THAT TO BE A REQUIREMENT TO
DIRECTLY TO THE GOVERNMENT.
DISCLOSE THOSE CHEMICALS
SO THAT WAS SOMETHING THE
DIRECTLY TO THE GOVERNMENT.
INDUSTRY LOBBIED FOR AND GOT.
SO THAT WAS SOMETHING THE
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ISSUE,
INDUSTRY LOBBIED FOR AND GOT.
THERE IS THIS NEW REQUIREMENT
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ISSUE,
THAT COMPANIES MUST INCLUDE AND
THERE IS THIS NEW REQUIREMENT
HAVE AN ABOVE-GROUND TANK TO
THAT COMPANIES MUST INCLUDE AND
STORE AFTER THE FRACKING
HAVE AN ABOVE-GROUND TANK TO
PROCESS.
STORE AFTER THE FRACKING
THAPT THAT HELPS ADD TO THE COST
PROCESS.
OF THE REGULATION, ALMOST DOUBLE
THAPT THAT HELPS ADD TO THE COST
IT, TO ALMOST $11,000 PER WELL,
OF THE REGULATION, ALMOST DOUBLE
WHICH IS STILL QUITE A SMALL
IT, TO ALMOST $11,000 PER WELL,
FRACTION OF WHAT IT COSTS TO
WHICH IS STILL QUITE A SMALL
DRILL A WELL OVERALL BUT THAT'S
FRACTION OF WHAT IT COSTS TO
SOMETHING YOU CAN EXPECT
DRILL A WELL OVERALL BUT THAT'S
COMPANIES AND STATES MIGHT PUSH
SOMETHING YOU CAN EXPECT
BACK ON.
COMPANIES AND STATES MIGHT PUSH
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK
BACK ON.
ABOUT THE PUSHBACK.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK
SOME LOBBYING GROUPS
ABOUT THE PUSHBACK.
REPRESENTING OIL AND GAS FILED
SOME LOBBYING GROUPS
SUIT TO TRY TO STOP.
REPRESENTING OIL AND GAS FILED
THIS WHAT ARE THEY CONCERNED
SUIT TO TRY TO STOP.
ABOUT?
THIS WHAT ARE THEY CONCERNED
>> THEY'RE DEFINITELY PREPARED
ABOUT?
FOR THE REGULATION BECAUSE THE
>> THEY'RE DEFINITELY PREPARED
LAWSUIT WAS SENT OUT MERE
FOR THE REGULATION BECAUSE THE
MINUTES AFTER THE FINAL
LAWSUIT WAS SENT OUT MERE
REGULATION WAS POSTED ONLINE
MINUTES AFTER THE FINAL
TODAY.
REGULATION WAS POSTED ONLINE
THEY SAY THAT THE RULE HAS NO
TODAY.
MERIT AND NO REASON TO EXIST
THEY SAY THAT THE RULE HAS NO
GIVEN THAT MANY STATES ALREADY
MERIT AND NO REASON TO EXIST
REGULATE FRACKING AND THAT'S
GIVEN THAT MANY STATES ALREADY
TRUE.
REGULATE FRACKING AND THAT'S
MOST STATES, ESPECIALLY THOSE
TRUE.
WITH MOST OIL AND GAS RESOURCES,
MOST STATES, ESPECIALLY THOSE
SUCH AS COLORADO, WYOMING, TEXAS
WITH MOST OIL AND GAS RESOURCES,
AND PENNSYLVANIA, MANY OF THEM
SUCH AS COLORADO, WYOMING, TEXAS
ALREADY HAVE PRETTY STRICT
AND PENNSYLVANIA, MANY OF THEM
REGULATIONS.
ALREADY HAVE PRETTY STRICT
SO THAT'S THEIR REASONING FOR
REGULATIONS.
WHY THEY DON'T THINK THESE
SO THAT'S THEIR REASONING FOR
REGULATIONS ARE REPUBLICANS ALSO
WHY THEY DON'T THINK THESE
INTRODUCE LEGISLATION JUST
REGULATIONS ARE REPUBLICANS ALSO
YESTERDAY EVENING THAT PROHIBITS
INTRODUCE LEGISLATION JUST
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FROM
YESTERDAY EVENING THAT PROHIBITS
REGULATING FRACKING AS WELL.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FROM
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
REGULATING FRACKING AS WELL.
CONCERN TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
GROUPS?
CONCERN TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
WHERE DO THEY THINK THAT
GROUPS?
GOVERNMENT IS NOT GOING FAR
WHERE DO THEY THINK THAT
ENOUGH?
GOVERNMENT IS NOT GOING FAR
>> THE ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP IS A
ENOUGH?
LITTLE BIT MORE FRACTURED.
>> THE ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP IS A
YOU HAVE SOME GROUPS, SOME
LITTLE BIT MORE FRACTURED.
ENVIRONMENTALISTS WHO SAY
YOU HAVE SOME GROUPS, SOME
FRACKING IS DANGEROUS NO MATTER
ENVIRONMENTALISTS WHO SAY
WHAT AND IT SHOULD BE BANNED.
FRACKING IS DANGEROUS NO MATTER
THEY WANT A VICTORY ON THAT FROM
WHAT AND IT SHOULD BE BANNED.
LAST YEAR WHEN NEW YORK MOVED TO
THEY WANT A VICTORY ON THAT FROM
BAN THE PRACTICE WHICH IS THE
LAST YEAR WHEN NEW YORK MOVED TO
FIRST STATE TO BAN THE PRACTICE
BAN THE PRACTICE WHICH IS THE
THAT HAS SUBSTANTIAL RESOURCES.
FIRST STATE TO BAN THE PRACTICE
VERMONT ALSO BANNED FRACKING
THAT HAS SUBSTANTIAL RESOURCES.
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
VERMONT ALSO BANNED FRACKING
BUT IT HAS NO RESOURCES SO IT'S
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
PRIMARILY A SYMBOLIC VICTORY FOR
BUT IT HAS NO RESOURCES SO IT'S
THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS.
PRIMARILY A SYMBOLIC VICTORY FOR
>> OKAY.
THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS.
THE ENVIRONMENTALISTED WANTED
>> OKAY.
FRACKING DISCLOSURE TO THE
THE ENVIRONMENTALISTED WANTED
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SO THEY
FRACKING DISCLOSURE TO THE
DIDN'T GET THAT.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SO THEY
OVERALL THEY'RE HAPPY THE
DIDN'T GET THAT.
REGULATION WAS RELEASED.
OVERALL THEY'RE HAPPY THE
IT WAS DELAYED AND WE PROPOSED
REGULATION WAS RELEASED.
FOR QUITE A WHILE, SO I THINK
IT WAS DELAYED AND WE PROPOSED
THEY'RE HAPPY IT CAME OUT.
FOR QUITE A WHILE, SO I THINK
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE
THEY'RE HAPPY IT CAME OUT.
CONSEQUENCEONS CAPITOL HILL,
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE
WAYS AROUND THIS EITHER LOBBY IS
CONSEQUENCEONS CAPITOL HILL,
LOOKING FOR.
WAYS AROUND THIS EITHER LOBBY IS
>> YOU SAW THE REPUBLICAN
LOOKING FOR.
SENATOR FRO FROM OKLAHOMA, HE
>> YOU SAW THE REPUBLICAN
DROPPED A BILL WITH SUPPORT FROM
SENATOR FRO FROM OKLAHOMA, HE
EVERY OTHER REPUBLICAN IN THE
DROPPED A BILL WITH SUPPORT FROM
SENATE THAT WOULD BAN THE
EVERY OTHER REPUBLICAN IN THE
GOVERNMENT FROM REGULATING
SENATE THAT WOULD BAN THE
FRACKING.
GOVERNMENT FROM REGULATING
I DON'T ANTICIPATE THEY COULD
FRACKING.
GET 60 VOTES, THE REQUIRED
I DON'T ANTICIPATE THEY COULD
NUMBER OF VOTES NEEDED TO PASS
GET 60 VOTES, THE REQUIRED
THE BILL THROUGH THE SENATE, BUT
NUMBER OF VOTES NEEDED TO PASS
EVEN IF THEY DID, I'M PRETTY
THE BILL THROUGH THE SENATE, BUT
CONFIDENT PRESIDENT OBAMA WOULD
EVEN IF THEY DID, I'M PRETTY
VETO THE BILL.
CONFIDENT PRESIDENT OBAMA WOULD
THE REPUBLICAN CONTROLLED HOUSE
VETO THE BILL.
ALSO SIGNALED THEY'RE PLANNING
THE REPUBLICAN CONTROLLED HOUSE
SOME SORT OF LEGISLATIVE
ALSO SIGNALED THEY'RE PLANNING
RESPONSE.
SOME SORT OF LEGISLATIVE
BUT I THINK OVERALL THEIR
RESPONSE.
EFFORTS ARE NOT GOING TO SUCCEED
BUT I THINK OVERALL THEIR
WHICH IS HOW MANY THINGS IN THE
EFFORTS ARE NOT GOING TO SUCCEED
ENERGY ENVIRONMENT SPACE GO
WHICH IS HOW MANY THINGS IN THE
ALONG CAPITOL HILL.
ENERGY ENVIRONMENT SPACE GO
>> Sreenivasan: AMY HARDER OF
ALONG CAPITOL HILL.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
>> Sreenivasan: AMY HARDER OF
THANKS SO MUCH.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW, HOW ONE
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
STUDENT'S EFFORTS CHANGED HIS
>> Woodruff: NOW, HOW ONE
HIGH SCHOOL IN TEXAS AND MADE IT
STUDENT'S EFFORTS CHANGED HIS
MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR PEOPLE WITH
HIGH SCHOOL IN TEXAS AND MADE IT
DISABILITIES.
MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR PEOPLE WITH
IT'S THE SUBJECT OF NATIONALLY
DISABILITIES.
RECOGNIZED VIDEO FROM OUR
IT'S THE SUBJECT OF NATIONALLY
STUDENT REPORTING LAB IN AUSTIN.
RECOGNIZED VIDEO FROM OUR
AND TELLS THE STORY OF ARCHER
STUDENT REPORTING LAB IN AUSTIN.
HADLEY, A TEENAGER WITH CEREBRAL
AND TELLS THE STORY OF ARCHER
PALSY WHO MOBILIZED THE ENTIRE
HADLEY, A TEENAGER WITH CEREBRAL
SCHOOL COMMUNITY.
PALSY WHO MOBILIZED THE ENTIRE
TODAY, OUR STUDENT REPORTING LAB
SCHOOL COMMUNITY.
TEAM ARRIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY, OUR STUDENT REPORTING LAB
FOR THE SECOND ANNUAL STUDENT
TEAM ARRIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE
FILM FESTIVAL.
FOR THE SECOND ANNUAL STUDENT
THE PRESIDENT CONGRATULATED THE
FILM FESTIVAL.
YOUNG PRODUCERS FOR FINDING
THE PRESIDENT CONGRATULATED THE
UNIQUE STORIES ABOUT THE
YOUNG PRODUCERS FOR FINDING
IMPORTANCE OF GIVING BACK TO
UNIQUE STORIES ABOUT THE
ONE'S COMMUNITY.
IMPORTANCE OF GIVING BACK TO
OVER 1,500 SCHOOLS SUBMITTED
ONE'S COMMUNITY.
FILMS, 15 WERE CHOSEN.
OVER 1,500 SCHOOLS SUBMITTED
HERE IS AUSTIN HIGH SCHOOL'S
FILMS, 15 WERE CHOSEN.
WINNING VIDEO.
HERE IS AUSTIN HIGH SCHOOL'S
MY NAME IS ARCHER HADLEY.
WINNING VIDEO.
I HAV-- HAVING CEREBRAL PALSY AD
MY NAME IS ARCHER HADLEY.
LIVING IN A WHEELCHAIR IS A
I HAV-- HAVING CEREBRAL PALSY AD
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT EXPERIENCE
LIVING IN A WHEELCHAIR IS A
THAN ANYONE WITH A "NORMAL
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT EXPERIENCE
LIFE."
THAN ANYONE WITH A "NORMAL
BECAUSE I'M DISABLED,
LIFE."
INDEPENDENCE IS A LITTLE HARDER
BECAUSE I'M DISABLED,
FOR ME.
INDEPENDENCE IS A LITTLE HARDER
ONE DAY, IT WAS RAINING AND AS
FOR ME.
I'M TRYING TO OPEN THE DOOR,
ONE DAY, IT WAS RAINING AND AS
WATER IS GUSHING ON MY BACK, I'M
I'M TRYING TO OPEN THE DOOR,
GETTING SOAKING WET.
WATER IS GUSHING ON MY BACK, I'M
I TRIED THIS FOR FIVE TO SEVEN
GETTING SOAKING WET.
MINUTES, AND I GOT REALLY
I TRIED THIS FOR FIVE TO SEVEN
FRUSTRATED, AND THAT WAS WHEN I
MINUTES, AND I GOT REALLY
REALIZED, HEY, I HAVE BEEN TO A
FRUSTRATED, AND THAT WAS WHEN I
LOT OF PUBLIC PLACES THAT HAVE
REALIZED, HEY, I HAVE BEEN TO A
AUTOMATIC DOORS, WHY CAN'T I DO
LOT OF PUBLIC PLACES THAT HAVE
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS?
AUTOMATIC DOORS, WHY CAN'T I DO
>> WHEN WE FIRST VISITED WITH
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS?
ARCHER ABOUT WHAT HIS
>> WHEN WE FIRST VISITED WITH
EXPECTATIONS WERE, HE WANTED TO
ARCHER ABOUT WHAT HIS
INSTALL AUTOMATIC DOOR OPERATORS
EXPECTATIONS WERE, HE WANTED TO
ON THREE DOORS.
INSTALL AUTOMATIC DOOR OPERATORS
THE COST FOR EACH OF THOSE DOORS
ON THREE DOORS.
WAS SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 5,000 AND
THE COST FOR EACH OF THOSE DOORS
$6,500 PER DOOR IN OUR ORIGINAL
WAS SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 5,000 AND
ESTIMATE.
$6,500 PER DOOR IN OUR ORIGINAL
>> ARCHER'S IDEA WAS A
ESTIMATE.
WHEELCHAIR CHALLENGE, INVOLVING
>> ARCHER'S IDEA WAS A
STUDENTS TO CHALLENGE OTHERS TO
WHEELCHAIR CHALLENGE, INVOLVING
SPEND A DAY IN A WHEELCHAIR.
STUDENTS TO CHALLENGE OTHERS TO
IF YOU CHALLENGE SOMEONE, YOU
SPEND A DAY IN A WHEELCHAIR.
NEED TO PAY $20.
IF YOU CHALLENGE SOMEONE, YOU
>> TODAY I WAS NOMINATED FOR THE
NEED TO PAY $20.
WHEELCHAIR CHALLENGE.
>> TODAY I WAS NOMINATED FOR THE
ALL DAY I WILL BE IN THE
WHEELCHAIR CHALLENGE.
WHEELCHAIR.
ALL DAY I WILL BE IN THE
I CAN'T GET OUT OF MY
WHEELCHAIR.
WHEELCHAIR, I HAVE TO GO IN IT
I CAN'T GET OUT OF MY
TO ALL MY CLASSES.
WHEELCHAIR, I HAVE TO GO IN IT
>> ALL PARTICIPANTS THOROUGHLY
TO ALL MY CLASSES.
UNDERSTAND WHY WE NEED THE
>> ALL PARTICIPANTS THOROUGHLY
BUTTONS NOW.
UNDERSTAND WHY WE NEED THE
>> OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF PEOPLE
BUTTONS NOW.
CAME TOGETHER TO MAKE THIS
>> OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAPPEN AND THIS WAS REALLY NEED
CAME TOGETHER TO MAKE THIS
TO SEE.
HAPPEN AND THIS WAS REALLY NEED
>> ARCHER RAISED $87,000.
TO SEE.
NOT ONLY DID IT GO TOWARD THE
>> ARCHER RAISED $87,000.
ORIGINAL CONCEPT OF THREE DOORS,
NOT ONLY DID IT GO TOWARD THE
IT WENT ON TO BE FIVE DOORS.
ORIGINAL CONCEPT OF THREE DOORS,
THE CHALLENGE WAS TO GET ALL THE
IT WENT ON TO BE FIVE DOORS.
WORK THAT WAS REQUIRED FOR THE
THE CHALLENGE WAS TO GET ALL THE
PROJECT COMPLETED IN THE WINTER
WORK THAT WAS REQUIRED FOR THE
BREAK PERIOD, ALL OF THE WORK
PROJECT COMPLETED IN THE WINTER
HAD TO BE READY FOR A
BREAK PERIOD, ALL OF THE WORK
CELEBRATION SCHEDULED MONDAY
HAD TO BE READY FOR A
JANUARY 25 WHEN SCHOOL RETURNED
CELEBRATION SCHEDULED MONDAY
TO SESSION.
JANUARY 25 WHEN SCHOOL RETURNED
ANYONE WITH HEART, ANYONE WITH
TO SESSION.
DETERMINATION, ANYONE WITH FOCUS
ANYONE WITH HEART, ANYONE WITH
ON ACHIEVING ANYTHING CAN
DETERMINATION, ANYONE WITH FOCUS
ACHIEVE THINGS BEYOND THEIR
ON ACHIEVING ANYTHING CAN
WILDEST DREAMS.
ACHIEVE THINGS BEYOND THEIR
CAMPE-- ARCHER IS AN INSPIRATION
WILDEST DREAMS.
INSPIRATION FOR ME AND FOR SO
CAMPE-- ARCHER IS AN INSPIRATION
MANY OTHERS.
INSPIRATION FOR ME AND FOR SO
>> ARCHER IS GIVING BACK TO HIS
MANY OTHERS.
COMMUNITY BY PROVIDING THE
>> ARCHER IS GIVING BACK TO HIS
ABILITY FOR STUDENTS AND FACULTY
COMMUNITY BY PROVIDING THE
AND ANY SIT VISITOR WHO COMES TR
ABILITY FOR STUDENTS AND FACULTY
SCHOOL FEEL WELCOME.
AND ANY SIT VISITOR WHO COMES TR
THIS PROJECT WILL HELP THE
SCHOOL FEEL WELCOME.
COMMUNITY FOR YEARS AND YEARS TO
THIS PROJECT WILL HELP THE
COME.
COMMUNITY FOR YEARS AND YEARS TO
>> Woodruff: TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
COME.
THE NEWSHOUR'S STUDENT REPORTING
>> Woodruff: TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
LABS PROJECT AND SEE ORIGINAL
THE NEWSHOUR'S STUDENT REPORTING
YOUTH-PRODUCED STORIES FROM
LABS PROJECT AND SEE ORIGINAL
AROUND THE COUNTRY, GO TO
YOUTH-PRODUCED STORIES FROM
studentreportinglabs.org
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS, THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME.
LET'S TALK ABOUT ISRAEL, ITS
NEWLY-ELECTED PRIME MINISTER,
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, OR LOOKS
THAT WAY.  HE TURNED HEADS,
DAVID, JUST BEFORE THE ELECTION
WHEN HE SAID THAT HE DIDN'T
BELIEVE, AFTER ALL, THAT THE
PALESTINIANS SHOULD HAVE THEIR
OWN STATE AND, ALSO, WHEN HE
TALKED ABOUT ARABS GOING TO TO
THE POLLS IN DROVES, THAT WAS A
FEW DAYS AGO.
YESTERDAY, HE WAS TELLING
AMERICAN REPORTERS, NO, HE DOES
THINK THERE COULD BE A
PALESTINIAN STATE.
WHICH IS IT?
>> HE'S A FASCINATING FIGURE.
HE'S BRILLIANT, ISOLATED,
INSLAYER --
>> Woodruff: YOU DON'T MEAN
THAT AS A COAMPLE MEANT,
NIXONIAN?
>> HE HAS A SMALL STAFF, SMALL
CIRCLE, SO I WOULD DIFFERENTIATE
THE TWO STATEMENTS.
THE STATEMENT ABOUT THE ARABS
WAS VOTER SUPPRESSION.
IN HIS ELECTORAL SYSM,TE HE'S
NOT TRYING TO WIN OVER LEFT
VOTES, HE'S TRYING TO GET MORE
RIGHT PARTIES IN HIS CAMP WHICH
HE SUCCEEDED IN DOING.
THE STUFF ON THE PALESTINIAN
STATE IS MORE COMPLICATED.
IT'S BEEN REPORTED HE'S SAYING
NEVER WILL BE A PALESTINIAN
STATE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I READ OR WHAT I
THINK HE'S SAYING.  HE'S SINGAY
WITH THE QUOTE THAT TODAY WITH
THE ISLAMIC ON RISE, IT ULDWO BE
A RISK TO HAVE IT TODAY, I DON'T
THINK HE SAID FOREVERMORE.
IT'S ARGUABLE WHETHER WITH HAMAS
AND I.S.I.S. AROUND WHETHER
THERE SHOULD BE A PALESTINIAN
STATE BUT ITS DEFENSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
IT'S CONSISTENT.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS CLEARLY A
PANDER TO THE RIGHT, OBVIOUSLY.
BUTAS W IT OUTRAGEOUS?
DID H HE SAY THERE SHOULD NEVER
BE A PALLETS WITHIN STATE IN I
DON'T THINK HE SAID HAT AT THE
HEIGHT OF THE CAMPAIGN.
>> Woodruff: MARK.
UNCRITICALLY ADMIRING
SUPPORTERS AND FRIENDS OF THE
PRIME MINISTER THAT INCLUDE
DAVID, CHARLES, MIKE HUCKABEE,
INSIST ON COMPARING HIM TO THE
INCOMPARABLE LEADER OF THE
BRITISH FORCES WORLD WAR II.
I THINK WE'VE ESTABLISHED THIS
PAST WEEK FOR SURE THAT BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU IS NO WINSTON
CHURCHILL.
WHATEVER ELSE HE, IS HE'S NOT A
WIRNSE -- WINSTON CHURCHILL.
HE VIOLATED THE RULE THAT IT'S
BETTER TO LOSE AN ELECTION THAN
MISLEAD THE PEOPLE AND WIN AN
ELECTION.
DAVID'S CASE IS LEGITIMATE, BUT
THERE IS NO DOUBT HIS INTENTION
WAS TO TURN OUT THE VOTE.
HIS INTENTION WAS TO WALK BACK
FROM THE 2009 POSITION THAT HE
HAD TAKEN WHEN HE THEN CAME OUT
IN FAVOR OF THE TWO-STATE
SOLUTION AND HE DID IT SOLELY
FOR ELECTORAL PURPOSES, SOLELY
TO WIN AN ELECTION AND I THINK
ARABS COMING OUT IN DROVES IS SO
VIOLATING JEWISH VALUES OF
WELCOMING THE STRANGER AND
STANDING UP FOR THE OUTSIDER AND
DEFENDING THE MARGINALIZED.
THIS WAS CLASSIC US AGAINST
THEM.
THIS WAS THE NARROWEST AND
MEANEST OF POLITICS TO WHICH
JEWS SADLY AND TRAGICALLY AROUND
THE WORLD HAVE BEEN SUBJECTED TO
AND INCLUDING THIS COUNTRY AND
JUST TO WIN A LOUSY ELECTION?
HE'S A DIMINISHED MAN, I
BELIEVE.
>> Woodruff: WHATEVER YOU
THINK ABOUT WHAT HE DID, WE NOW
HEAR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
SAYING THEY'RE THINKING ABOUT
GOING TO U.N. TO SUPPORT THE
PALESTINIANS.
IS THIS AN OVERREACTION?
DOES IT MAKE SENSE UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES?
>> I THINK IT'S OVERREACTION.
I AGREE WITH WHAT MARK SAID AT
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE VOTE AND
TREATMENT OF THE ISRAELI ARABS,
BUT THE UNITED STATES HAS SAID
ALL ALONG THAT A UNILATERAL
SOLUTION IS NOT A SOLUTION, IT
HAS TO BE MUTUALLY AGREED.
I JUST DON'T THINK THAT'S A
STABLE PEACE.
I DON'T THINK THE PALESTINIANS
ARE IN THIS POSITION THEY'RE IN
DIVIDED WITH HAMAS AND THE P.A.
UNWILLING TO RECOGNIZE ISRAEL AS
A JEWISH STATE.
THEY'RE A LONG WAY,
FUNDAMENTALISM IS ON THE MARCH,
AND A LONG WAY FROM GETTING TO
THE PLACE WHERE PALESTINIANS AND
ISRAELIS CAN REACH A SOLUTION.
I THINK WE'RE STUCK HERE FOR A
WHILE GIVEN THE CURRENT
CONDITIONS ON BOTH SIDES.
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION OVERREACTED?
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
PRESIDENT IS UPSET.
I MEAN, THIS HAS BEEN A
BIPARTISAN ISSUE FOR MORE THAN
50 YEARS, SUPPORT BOTH DEMOCRATS
AND REPUBLICANS.
NETANYAHU AND HIS SUPPORTERS IN
THIS COUNTRY MADE IT A PARTISAN
ISSUE.
HE INJECTED HIMSELF IN THE RACE
TWO WEEKS BEFORE THE ELECTION.
HE INJECTED TO USE IT AS A FORUM
TO ATTACK THE POLICIES OF THE
PRESIDENT.
HE DID.
NOW, I DON'T THINK HE SHOULD
MAKE FOREIGN POLICY ON THE BASIS
OFBUT I DON'T THINK IT
CAN BE OVERSTATED ISRAEL HAS
BEEN AN EMBATTLED DEMOCRACY THAT
ENJOYED OVERWHELMING SUPPORT OF
AMERICANS AND HAS BEEN A MORAL
FORCE AND I THINK THAT'S
COMPROMISED AS LONG AS ISRAEL IS
AN OCCUPYING POWER, OCCUPYING
THE WEST BANK WHERE PALESTINIAN
RIGHTS ARE ABRIDGED, THAT
POLITICAL AND CIVIL AND LEGAL
RIGHTS ARE ABRIDGED AND THAT IS
NOT -- THAT HURTS ISRAEL.
ISRAEL LOST SUPPORT, A MAJORITY
OF AMERICANS UNDER THE AGE OF 30
OPPOSED ISRAEL LAST SUMMER IN
HAMAS, A BATTLE IN GAZA, AND ARE
LOSING SUPPORT IN THIS COUNTRY
AND WILL BE FURTHER ICE LAID.
>> ONE QUICK POINT ABOUT THE
POLITICS OF RESENTMENT.
THIS IS A COUNTRY OF 6 MILLION
PEOPLE, THEY NEED THE U.S.
IT USED TO BE BIPARTISAN ON
ISRAELI POLITICS, YOU NEVER WANT
TO MESS WITH THAT RELATIONSHIP.
I THOUGHT IT WOULD HORRIFY
VOTERS MORE THAN IT DID THE FACT
NETANYAHU WAS WILLING TO DO
THAT.
>> Woodruff: TO CONGRESS, THE
BUDGET REPUBLICANS, WE SEE WHAT
THE REPUBLICANS WANT TO DO WITH
THE BUDGET.
MANY ARE ARGUING WE NEED TO CUT
$5.5 TRILLION THE NEXT TEN
YEARS, CUTTING MEDICAID AND FOOD
STAMPS.
DEMOCRATS ARE SCREAMING THIS IS
WAY TOO MUCH.
DO YOU SEE BALANCE HERE?
>> THIS IS HAPPENING ON TWO
LEVELS, ONE IS THE GRAND VISION
LEVEL, WHAT DO YOU WANT, AND THE
REPUBLICAN BUDGET IN THE HOUSE
HAS A GRAND VISION.
THEY'RE RIGHT TO SAY WE NEED
MASSIVE CHINGS TO GET THE
BUDGET.
THE BUDGET IS RISING UP TO 78%
OF THE GDP, WAY OUT IN TEN
YEARS.
SO THEY DO NEED TO DO THINGS.
I SALUTE THE WAY THEY'RE
ATTACKING SOME ENTITLEMENT
PROGRAMS BUT ARE TAKING HUGE
CUTS FROM MEDICAID, THE LEAST
FORTUNATE AND OUT OF
DISCRETIONARY SPEND WIG IS
ALREADY AT HIS TORQUE LOWS.
SO I AGREE THE IDEA OF DUE TING
BUT IT SHOULD BE COMING OUT OF
ENTITLEMENTS FOR THE AFFLUENT
AND NOT OUT OF DISCRETIONARY,
PARKS, F.B.I. AND SHOULDN'T BE
COMING OUT OF MEDICAID.
I LIKE THEIR APPROACH BUT JUST
NOT THE PRIORITIES THEY
DEMONSTRATE IN THE BROAD RUSH.
THE NARROW THING IS OVER WHERE
TO CUT DEFENSE AND THE
REPUBLICANS ARE JUST HUGELY
DIVIDED.
>> I THINK THEY WANT TO INCREASE
DEFENSE, JUDY.
IT'S PART OF THE REPUBLICAN
CREED AND SO THE FIRST TIME
UNDERSTANDABLY THEY HAVE A REAL
ADVANTAGE ON NATIONAL SECURITY
AND IT'S MEASURED IN THE POLLS,
WHAT THEY HOPE WOULD BE A
NATIONAL SECURITY ELECTION, BUT
ALSO PART OF WHAT HAS BEEN A
CONSISTENT REPUBLICAN POSITION,
AND THEY NOW ARE MORE
INTERVENTIONENNIST PARTY THAN AT
ANYTIME SINCE GEORGE W. BUSH
LEFT OFFICE.
AT THE SAME TIME YOU HAVE THE
DEFICIT HAWKS.
THEY'RE GIVEN A BAD NAME TO
SMOKE AND MIRRORS.
THEY SAY THEY WILL REPEAL THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND CUT
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID.
THE SENATE DOES NOT DO THAT, THE
SENATE REPS.
THEY VOTED FOR IT WHEN THEY WENT
IN POWER BUT DON'T INCLUDE IT AS
PART OF THEIR AGENDA WHEN THEY
ARE IN POWER.
SO WE'RE SEEING A LOT OF BACK
AND FORTH.
AS LONG AS REPS WON'T RAISE
TAXES AND AS LONG AS DEMOCRATS
WON'T IN ANY WAY MAKE
EN
TITLEMENTS BASED ON NEED RATHER
THAN JUST ACROSS THE BOARD, I
REALLY THINK THAT WE'RE DOOMED
TO THIS DEADLOCK.
>> THIS IS LIKE THE MIDDLE EAST.
BOTH PARTIES HAVE TO DO IT
TOGETHER BECAUSE IT'S TOO
PAINFUL TO DO IT ALONE.
SO YOU HAVE TO GET THERE AND
WE'RE NOT GETTING THERE ANYTIME
SOON.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER STORY
OUT OF THE SENATE HAS TO DO WITH
UPHOLDING THE NOMINATION AND
COFFIN NATION TO LORETTA LYNCH,
THE PRESIDENT'S CHOICE FOR THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
MARK, THE AIR ARGUMENT THAT
DEMOCRATS ARE MAKING OR THAT
REPUBLICANS ARE MAKING IS THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HOLD THIS UP
UNTIL YOU PASS THE HUMAN
TRAFFICKING BILL.
THAT'S NOW BEING HELD UP BY
LANGUAGE OVER ABORTION.
IS THERE A REAL DIFFERENCE HERE
OR IS IT PURE POLITICS?
>> IT'S THE SENATE AT ITS WORST.
HUMAN TRAFFICKING BILL WAS
REPORTED OUT UNANIMOUSLY.
THE HYDE AMENDMENT WHICH HAS
BEEN IN OFFICE FOR 40 YEARS,
JUDY, PREVENTS THE USE OF PUBLIC
FRIENDS EXCEPT IN THE CASE OF
RAPE, INCEST OR THE LIFE OF THE
MOTHER FOR ABORTION.
IT'S ON PAGE 4, PAGE 5 OF THE
BILL.
IT'S THERE.
THEN ONE OF THE PRO-CHOICE
GROUPS EVER VILLAGE ATLANTA GETS
THIS LANGUAGE AND IT BECOMES A
MATTER OF FAITH FOR THE
DEMOCRATS.
YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND, THE
REPUBLICANS ARE LOCK STEP ON ONE
ISSUE, THEY WILL NOT RAISE
TAXES.
DEMOCRATS ARE IN LOCK STEP ON
ANOTHER ISSUE, PRO-CHOICE ON ALL
CASES IN ABORTION.
SO HUMAN TRAFFICKING IS LOST.
HUMAN TRAFFICKING IS AN OUTRAGE
AGAINST ANY DECENT PEOPLE.
THE VICTIMS ARE TERRIBLY,
TERRIBLY TREATED, WHETHER IN SEX
TRADE OR WHATEVER, THIS IS A
CHANCE TO GET THEM BACK, TO HELP
THEM, TO HELP LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT, AND THE DEMOCRATS
ARE STANDING ON ONE SIDE AND THE
REPUBLICANS ARE PLAYING GAMES ON
OTHER, BOTH SIDES PLAYING GAMES,
THEY OUGHT TO PASS THE HUMAN
TRAFFICKING AND CONFIRM LORETTA
LYNCH.
>> IF WE HAD A GOVERNMENT THAT
WORKED, THEY WOULD SAY OKAY THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS NOTHING TO
DO WITH HUMAN TRAFFICKING WE'LL
LET HER GO THROUGH AND THE
DEMOCRATS WILL SAY THE HYDE
AMENDMENT HAS LOOPHOLES AND
DOESN'T HAVE MUCH PRACTICAL
EFFECT WE'LL LET IT GO THROUGH
AND BOTH THINGS WOULD GET
THROUGH BUT WE DON'T LIVE IN
THAT COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: ON A C
DIFFERENT NOTE I WANT TO SAY AT
THE END THIS IS COLLEGE
BASKETBALL MARCH MADNESS.
I WANT TO HEAR FROM THE TWO OF
YOU IN LESS THAN 30 SECONDS.
WHO ARE YOU PICKING, MARK.
>> YOU'RE OBVIOUSLY TALK ABOUT
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S.
>> Woodruff: I AM.
NOTRE DAME, BOTH MEN AND
WOMEN NUMBER THREE SEED, AND THE
KEY IS 100% GRADUATION RATE IN
BOTH TEAMS WHICH I THINK IS
STANDING ALOAN AMONGST
COMPETITORS IN DIVISION 1.
>> MARK BRAVELY PICKING HIS OWN
SCHOOL.
>> JUST HAPPENS.
I'M STICKING WITH CATHOLICS.
IT'S A GOOD YEAR FOR CATHOLICS,
VILLANOVA.
IT'S VERY EVIL TO SUPPORT
KENTUCKY, THEY'RE AN EVIL FORCE
IN THE COUNTRY
(LAUGHTER)
VILLANOVA.
I DON'T KNOW IF I'M SEXIST, I'VE
NOT PAID MUCH ATTENTION TO
WOMEN'S BRACKET, SO I'LL BE FOR
CONNECTICUT.
>> Woodruff: ALONG WITH OTHER
GREAT SCHOOLS.
WE'LL CONTINUE THIS CONVERSATION
NEXT FRIDAY, DAVID BROOKS, MARK
SHIELDS, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE AUDIENCE
IS THE JUDGE IN THE CASE OF
SCALIA V. SCALIA, A PORTRAIT OF
THE SUPREME COURT JUSTICE
OPENING TONIGHT AT WASHINGTON'S
ARENA STAGE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK.
>> THE COURT HAS BEEN MY THEATER
AND I HAVE THE COSTUMES.
>> Brown: IN THE NEW PLAY, "THE
ORIGINALIST," THE FIRST THING
YOU NOTICE ABOUT ACTOR EDWARD
GERO IS HIS STRIKING PHYSICAL
RESEMBLANCE TO THE CHARACTER
HE'S PLAYING: THE REAL-LIFE
SUPREME COURT JUSTICE, ANTONIN
SCALIA.
>> I TELL PEOPLE WHAT THEY DON'T
WANT TO HEAR.
THAT'S WHAT MAKES ME A MONSTER.
THAT'S HOW HALF THE COUNTRY SEE
ME: COMBATIVE, LAW AND ORDER
CONSERVATIVE.
AND THAT'S WHAT THE OTHER HALF
SEES ME AS A HERO.
WHICH AM I?
>> Brown: AS IT HAPPENS, BOTH
THE JUSTICE AND THE ACTOR TRACE
THEIR HERITAGE TO NEARBY
VILLAGES IN SOUTHERN ITALY, BOTH
ARE FROM NEW JERSEY, RAISED IN
CATHOLIC HOMES AND SCHOOLS.
TO REALLY "BE SCALIA," ALL GERO
HAD TO DO WAS TAKE A SHORT RIDE
OVER TO THE SUPREME COURT, TO
WATCH HIM IN ACTION, TO GET THE
MANNERISMS DOWN.
>> HE SORT OF CLOSES HIS EYES A
LITTLE BIT, AND HEIGHTENS HIS
SENSE OF LISTENING.
>> Brown: SHOW ME.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, HE WILL,
HE'LL LISTEN, AND THEN WHEN HE
HEARS SOMETHING THEN HE'LL
POUNCE, RIGHT?
SO HE GATHERS UP AND SEARCHING
FOR THE RIGHT WORD, OR FOR THE
LOGIC OF THE ARGUMENT, AND ONCE
HE GRABS ONTO IT, HE'LL LAUNCH
AND HAVE A QUESTION.
>> Brown: ANTONIN SCALIA, OF
COURSE, IS THE FAMOUSLY
COMBATIVE LEADER OF THE COURT'S
CONSERVATIVE WING, AND CURRENTLY
ITS LONGEST-SERVING MEMBER.
A LOVER OF OPERA, WHICH THE PLAY
USES TO GREAT EFFECT AND
OPERATIC HIMSELF IN BOTH CHARM
AND BLUSTER.
HE'S AN INTELLECTUAL POWERHOUSE.
>> LOOK, I'M NOT AN IDEOLOGUE.
I AM AN ORIGINALIST.
>> Brown: AND A FIRM PROPONENT
THAT JUDGES SHOULD LOOK ONLY TO
THE ORIGINAL TEXT AND MEANING OF
THE CONSTITUTION.
>> TO INTERPRET THE CONSTITUTION
AS WRITTEN AND AS IT WAS
UNDERSTOOD BY THE AUTHORS.
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ARGUMENT
IS OBVIOUS AND WRONG!
THOSE WHO SAY IT MUST CHANGE
WITH THE TIMES: IT'S NOT LIVING,
FASHIONS CHANGE WITH THE TIMES,
THE CONSTITUTION STANDS!
>> Brown: PLAYWRIGHT JOHN STRAND
SAYS HE WAS ATTRACTED TO
SCALIA'S BIG PERSONALITY, BUT
EVEN MORE TO HIS CENTRALITY TO
SO MANY ISSUES IN TODAY'S PUBLIC
LIFE.
>> I THINK MOST PEOPLE, IF THEY
SAW THAT THERE WAS A PLAY WITH
JUSTICE SCALIA AS THE MAIN
CHARACTER DONE AT A THEATER IN
THE UNITED STATES, THEY'D EXPECT
TO SEE, PERHAPS A HATCHET JOB ON
THE JUSTICE, BECAUSE SURE.
>> Brown: YOU WERE CONSCIOUS OF
THAT?
>> OH, VERY CONSCIOUS ABOUT
THAT, AND IT WAS NEVER MY
INTENTION TO DO THAT.
I THINK IT WOULD BE CHILDISH,
I'M MUCH MORE INTERESTED IN
EXPLORING WHO HE IS, AND WHAT
HIS VIEWS ARE, AND WHY CAME TO
THOSE VIEWS.
>> Brown: IN FACT, WHAT STRAND
AND DIRECTOR MOLLY SMITH SAY
THEY ARE EXAMINING HERE IS THE
POLARIZATION OF AMERICAN
POLITICS TODAY.
>> AND I THINK WE ARE NOW IN A
PLACE WHERE AUDIENCES, AND WHERE
ARTISTS, ARE REALLY INTERESTED
IN THE POLITICAL SYSTEM.
WHY?
BECAUSE EVERYBODY SEES IT IS
BROKEN.
HOW CAN WE FIX IT, HOW CAN WE
PRESENT, PRODUCE PLAYS ON STAGE
THAT ARE ABOUT THIS SUBJECT?
>> Brown: THE PLAY EXPLORES THIS
BY INTRODUCING A LIBERAL LAW
CLERK PLAYED BY KERRY WARREN.
SHE'S A FICTIONAL CHARACTER BUT
SCALIA HAS ON OCCASION HIRED
LIBERAL CLERKS.
SHE'S THE OPPOSITE OF SCALIA IN
EVERY WAY, EXCERPT IN HER
FIERCENESS.
>> ABOUT LAW AND YOU, MOST
POLARIZING FIGURE IN AMERICAN
LIFE!
>> STRIKE THE PROBABLY.
DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER HONESTY TO
INFLICT?
>> YES, SIR.
WELL?
SIR, DITEST YOUR RULINGS ON
JUST ABOUT EVERY IMPORTANT
TOPIC -- ABORTION, GAY MARRIAGE,
GUN RIGHTS, EXECUTIVE
PRIVILEGE --
>> AFFIRMATIVE ACTION?
, CITIZENS CITIZENS
UNITED, CAPITAL PUNISHMENT, THE
FLORIDA RECOUNT AND OTHERS.
>> DETEST?
TOO STRONG?
DETEST IS GOOD.
LET IT STAND.
>> THANK YOU.
THERE'S MORE.
>> AH!
THERE'S MORE!
>> YOU'RE A MONSTER.
DO YOU HAVE A HABIT OF
CROSSING THE LINE, MISS?
>> I DON'T MEAN TO BE
DISRESPECTFUL, SIR.
"MONSTER" WAS YOUR TERM.
I NEED TO LEARN ABOUT MONSTERS.
>> WHY?
BECAUSE WE MOST FEAR WHAT WE
DON'T UNDERSTAND.
>> Brown: THE TWO SPAR
INTELLECTUALLY, BUT SOON ENOUGH
WITH RESPECT AND EVEN DEVELOPING
A FRIENDSHIP.
>> I THOUGHT IF WE HAVE PEOPLE
WHO ARE AT POLAR OPPOSITES,
POLITICALLY AND CULTURALLY,
SOCIALLY, THEN WE'VE GOT THE
POSSIBILITY OF EXPLORING THROUGH
THOSE TWO CHARACTERS HOW YOU
TAKE A STEP TOWARD THE OTHER
PERSON WHOM YOU DISAGREE WITH.
>> Brown: ACTOR EDWARD GERO IS
USED TO SUCH VERBAL JOUSTING,
AND ALSO CARING ABOUT HISTORIC
TEXTS: HE SPENT YEARS ON STAGE
PERFORMING SHAKESPEARE.
>> I WAS WATCHING YOU DO THIS,
THINKING THE POWER AND MAJESTY
OFTEN IN SHAKESPEARE PLAYS, AND
HERE YOU ARE, THE POWER AND
MAJESTY OF THE SUPREME COURT.
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION THEY'RE
ANALOGOUS.
THE FOCUS ON LANGUAGE, AND THE
LISTENING.
THE PEOPLE WHO INHABIT THESE
PLAYS IN SHAKESPEARE BEAR A
GREAT RESPECT FOR THE SPEAKER,
THEY'RE SEARCHING FOR THE TRUTH
OF THE ARGUMENT, IT'S VERY
LEGALISTIC IN THAT REGARD.
>> Brown: DOES SCALIA STRIKE YOU
AS ANY PARTICULAR SHAKESPEARIAN
CHARACTER?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW HE PLAYED
MACBETH, SO, AND I THINK HE'S
REALLY PROUD OF HAVING DONE
THAT.
>> Brown: OVER LUNCH RECENTLY,
GERO GOT TO TALK TO SCALIA ABOUT
SHAKESPEARE AND MORE, THOUGH NOT
ABOUT POLITICS OR THE PLAY, HE
INSISTS.
AND, AS HE SHOWED US IN HIS
DRESSING ROOM, HE WAS ABLE TO
PICK UP A FEW MORE TIPS FOR
PLAYING THE JUSTICE.
FOR ALL THE HUMAN FOCUS IN "THE
ORIGINALIST" THERE'S A LOT OF
ACTUAL LAW, CENTERED ON THE 2013
LANDMARK RULING BY THE HIGH
COURT ON GAY MARRIAGE.
THE PLAY USES SCALIA'S OWN WORDS
FROM SPEECHES AND OPINIONS.
PEOPLE WHO KNOW HIM, LAWYERS,
FORMER CLERKS, BIOGRAPHERS,
HELPED ENSURE A LEVEL OF
ACCURACY AND AUTHENTICITY.
AS TO THE "ORIGINALIST" HIMSELF,
THERE'S NO WORD YET AS TO
WHETHER JUSTICE SCALIA WILL
ATTEND THIS PLAY, IN WHICH HE
HIMSELF IS CENTRAL TO THE
DEBATE.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
JEFFREY BROWN AT THE ARENA STAGE
IN WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: THE END OF THE WEEK
IS A GOOD TIME FOR CATCHING UP
ON SOME WEEKEND READING, GWEN
IFILL RECORDED THIS LOOK.
>> Ifill: NOW IT'S TIME FOR US
TO LOOK AT TOPICS ON THE WEB
THAT ARE OF INTEREST BUT AREN'T
GETTING THAT MUCH ATTENTION,
WHAT WE CALL NOT TRENDING.
OUR GUIDE IS CARLOS WATSON,
FOUNDER OF THE WEB SITE OZY.
BIG STORY I SAW ON YOUR WEB SITE
FIRST I FOUND INTERESTING FROM
THE ECONOMIST.
IT'S ABOUT REVERSE -- THE
REVERSE GENDER GAP WHICH IS TO
SAY TEENAGE GIRLS GLOBALLY ARE
DOING BETTER THAN BOYS.
>> BIG SURPRISE.
SO THE OECD THINK TANK BASED IN
PARIS LOOKED AT 64 COUNTRIES AND
FOUND OUT ONCE UPON TIME WE'RE
WORRIED GIRLS WEREN'T GETTING
ENOUGH ATTENTION, MAKING ENOUGH
PROGRESS, PARTICULARLY IN D-12,
NOW THEY'RE OUTSTRIPPING BOYS,
SOMETIMES IN DRAMATIC FASHION,
NOT ONLY HERE IN THE U.S. BUT
ABROAD AS WELL.
THEY'VE COME EVEN IN MATH BUT
WHEN IT COMES TO THE SOCIAL
SCIENCES, UNFORTUNATELY AND
FRANKLY SOME OF THE PEOPLE
SAYING UNFORTUNATELY, IT'S NO
LONGER CLOSE.
>> IT'S ABOUT RICH, POOR
COUNTRIES?
DOES IT MATTER?
>> IT'S A MIX, PRIMARILY RICH
COUNTRIES.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT PLACES THAT
ARE ON THE MARGIN, INDONESIA,
TURKEY, PLACES WITH SOLID
COUNTRIES BUT NOT FIRST WORLD
DEVELOPED ECONOMIES, YOU'RE
SEEING THE GAPS THERE AS WELL.
>> Ifill: IT DOESN'T MEAN
THERE'S BEEN THE GAP IN SUCCESS
IN LIFE TO HIGH RANKING
POSITIONS.
>> IT HAS TRAVELED THROUGH
COLLEGE GRADUATION.
IN MANY CASES YOU'RE SEEING
WOMEN EXCEEDING THE NUMBER OF
MEN GRADUATING BY SOME 50% SO
IT'S NOT SMALL AND INCREMENTAL.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO PAY AS YOU
AND I AND MY THREE SISTERS KNOW,
UNFORTUNATELY, MANY WOMEN ARE
STILL MAKING 75 CENTS ON THE
DOLLAR, WHEN EQUALLY QUALIFIED
WITH MEN.
>> ANOTHER STORY THAT I THOUGHT
WAS INTERESTING THAT YOU DON'T
HEAR THAT MUCH ABOUT WHICH IS
THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE.
WE TALK ABOUT THE IMMIGRATION
DEBATE A LOT ON THIS PROGRAM AND
IN THIS COUNTRY BUT IT'S ALMOST
ALWAYS ABOUT THE ROLE OF LATINOS
AND THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE BUT
WHAT YOU'VE DISCOVERED IS IT'S
ACTUALLY INDIAN AMERICANS
ACTUALLY DRIVING LOOT OF THIS
CONVERSATION NOW.
>> HIDDEN MUSCLE.
INDIAN AMERICANS WHO ARE ONLY
SOME 400,000 INDIAN IMMIGRANTS
IN 1980 NOW ALMOST 3 MILLION ARE
PLAYING HIGH PROFILEOLE RS.
NIKKI HALEY IN SOUTH CAROLINA
AND BOBBY GIN DALE LOOKING FOR A
RUN FOR PREDENTSI, C.E.O. OF
MICROSOFT, A WHOLE WIDE RANGE OF
PEOPLE AND THE ARGUMENT IS THEY
COULD PLAY ROLES IN 2016 AND
SHIFTING AND BROADENING THAT
CONVERSATION, SOME FOUR OUT OF
FIVE OF THE INDIAN-AMERICANS ARE
IN FAVOR.
>> Ifill: ARE THEY DRIVING
OUTCOMES?
>> NOT SO MUCH THE VOTING BUT
MAYBE MONEY AND HELPING PEOPLE
THINK ABOUT TH THE VALUE IN TERS
OF THE CONTRIBUTION OF NEW
COMPANIES, OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF
WORKERS, OF MAKING SURE THAT
PEOPLE WHO COME HERE AND GET
UNIVERSITY DEGREES BUT THEN TAKE
THOSE SS
ALWAYS DO SO.
BY THE WAY, WHEN YOU THINK OF
INDIAN AMERICANS, YOU ASSUME ALL
THOSE ARE DOCUMENTED WORKERS BUT
NOT ALWAYS.
ALSO THERE ARE A QUARTER OF A
MILLION UNDOCUMENTED INDIAN
AMERICANS WHO ARE PART OF THE
STORY, TOO, AND IF WE HAVE A
BROADER CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT,
THEY WOULD BE A PART OF THAT,
TOO.
>> Ifill: INTERESTING.
FUN STORY OF THE WEEK.
THE BIKE CAVES WHICH EXIST THAT
I KNEW NOTHING OF UNDERGROUND
BIKING TRAILS.
HUGE.
>> CRAZY.
SO IN LOUISVILLE, UNDERNEATH THE
LOUISVILLE ZOO, NO LESS, IN A
FORMER MINE, WHERE IN THE
1930s, PEOPLE USED TO MINE FOR
LIMESTONE AND OTHER KINDS OF
THINGS, NOW PEOPLE ARE COMING TO
RIDE BIKES, EXTREME BIKE RIDING.
SO YOU KNOW THE B.M.X. FOLKS, I
KNOW YOU'RE WATCHING ESPN, WHY
WOULD I EVER DOUBT YOU POPPING
WHEELIES AND DOING ALL THE GOOD
STUFF?
FOLKS ARE DOING THAT, PAYING
15, 20, $25, VERY INVENTIVE.
KIND OF CRAZY, BUT IT'S
UNDERGROUND.
ENOUGH ROOM FOR A COUPLE HUNDRED
PEOPLE, ALREADY.
THIS PLACE CALL MEGACAVERN HAS
HAD 5,000 PEOPLE COMING FROM
ALABAMA, TEXAS AND ALL SORTS OF
STATES.
>> Ifill: ONE IN WASHINGTON
STATE AS WELL.
MY QUESTION IS WHY WOULD YOU GO
ALL THE WAY TO KENTUCKY TO RIDE
UNDERGROUND?
>> THE TEMPERATURE IS GREAT.
IT'S COOL DOWN THERE.
SECOND, THEY SAY THAT YOU CAN DO
IT ALL DAY LONG SO EVEN WHEN THE
WEATHER IS BAD, EVEN WHEN IT'S
SNOWY OUT.
THIRD, REMEMBER, ALL SORTS OF
PEOPLE THESE DAYS ARE LOOKING
FOR UNUSUAL PLACES TO TRAVEL AND
THIS IS A PLACE.
YOU KNOW, KENTUCKY IS NOT
SOMEWHERE EVERYBODY GOES EXCEPT
FOR KENTUCKY DERBY AND MAYBE
THIS TIME AROUND, EMARCH
MADNESS, BASKETBALL SEASON, SO A
NEW REASON TO COME TO KENTUCKY.
>> Ifill: SEE A GAME, A HORSE
RACE AND RIDE UNDERGROUND.
>> THE OTHER FUNNY THING, THEY
HAVE 4 MILLION SQUARE FEET.
NOT ONLY ARE PEOPLE RIDING BIKES
UNDERGROUND BUT THEY'RE ZIP
LINING THERE AS WELL.
SO LOTS OF UNUSUAL STUFF
HAPPENING WHEN YOU AND I ARE
WATCHING THE TRENDING STUFF.
>> Ifill: CARLOS WATSON WITH
OZY, THANK YOUING VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO SEE
GWEN POPPING WHLIEEES.
YOU CAN SEE MORE AT
PBS.org/"NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION TO OUR
SERIES, RACE TODAY, WHERE WE'VE
BEEN EXPLORING HOW DIFFERENT
GENERATIONS SEE THE ISSUES
MAKING HEADLINES.
"THE CONVERSATION" IS A SHORT
FILM FROM THE OP-DOCS TEAM AT
THE NEW YORK TIMES.
DIRECTORS GEETA GANDBEER AND
BLAIR FOSTER SPOKE TO PARENTS OF
AFRICAN AMERICAN BOYS ABOUT THE
CONVERSATION THEY HAVE WITH
THEIR SONS ON HOW TO RESPOND
WHEN STOPPED BY THE POLICE.
>> THIS IS UNSPOKEN CODE OF
RACISM AND WHITE SUPREMACY THAT
SAYS THAT MY LIFE DOES NOT
MATTER.
>> PUT YOUR HANDS UP AND
COOPERATE AND SAY THAT I'M
CHOKING AND STILL BE KILLED AND
THERE'S NO REPERCUSSIONS.
>> IT'S MADDENING.
I GET SO FRUSTRATED AND ANGRY
ABOUT HAVING TO PREPARE MY KIDS
FOR SOMETHING THAT THEY'RE NOT
RESPONSIBLE FOR.
>> THESE ARE CONVERSATIONS THAT
PEOPLE OF OTHER RACES DO NOT
HAVE TO HAVE WITH THEIR
CHILDREN.
>> THE CONVERSATION WITH HIM WAS
REALLY JUST, LOOK, YOU'RE A
BEAUTIFUL YOUNG BOY --
>> BEING AFRICAN-AMERICAN IS A
WONDERFUL THING, IT'S A
WONDERFUL BLESSING, YOU HAVE
COME FROM GREAT PEOPLE, BUT IT'S
ALSO A HARD THING.
>> IN AMERICA, BECAUSE OF YOUR
SKIN COLOR, AS A BLACK BOY AND
AS A BLACK MAN, WE ARE GOING TO
BE DEALING WITH A LOT OF DANGER.
>> UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE ARE YOU
TO TALK TO THE POLICE, IF YOU'RE
ARRESTED, UNTIL I GET THERE.
>> DO WHAT THEY SAY.
DON'T GET INTO ANY ARGUMENTS.
>> MAKE SURE YOUR HANDS ARE OUT
OF YOUR POCKETS TO THEY CAN SEE.
>> THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS YOU
CAN ASK.
THIS IS WHO TO CALL.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS IF THIS BAD
THING -- IT'S NOT LIKE, PLEASE,
MASSER, DON'T WHIP MY!
NO, IT'S PLEASE, SIR, WHAT'S
YOUR BADGE NUMBER?
I'M GOING TO FILM THIS.
>> IF YOU WANT POLICE BRUTALITY
TO STOP AND TREAT YOURSELF AS A
HUMAN BEING, YOU HAVE TO SEE
YOURSELF AS A HUMAN BEING.
>> YOU HAVE EVERY RIGHT THAT
ANYONE ELSE IN THIS WORLD DOES.
>> WHAT I LOVE ABOUT YOU AS MY
SON IS I REMEMBER WHEN WE
THOUGHT ABOUT HAVING YOU AND,
YOU KNOW, KNOWING THAT WE WANTED
YOU AND WATCHING YOU GROW.
>> YOU AREN'T A MOHAMED ALI --
YOU ARE A MOHAMED ALI, A
MALCOLM X, A MARTIN LUTHER KING.
>> YOU ARE AN AMAZING HUMAN
BEING.
>> I'LL DO MY BEST TO MAKE SURE
YOU'RE SAFE.
THAT'S IT.
I LOVE YOU.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE THE
ENTIRE FILM ALONG WITH
ADDITIONAL OP DOCS VIDEOS AT
nytimes.com slash/opdocs.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SUICIDE BOMBINGS IN YEMEN KILLED
AT LEAST 137 PEOPLE AND WOUNDED
350 AT TWO MOSQUES CONTROLLED BY
SHIITE REBELS.
SUNNI MILITANTS OF THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY.
AND THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
INTERIOR TIGHTENED THE RULES ON
OIL DRILLERS USING HYDRAULIC
FRACTURING, OR "FRACKING," ON
FEDERAL LANDS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE,
YESTERDAY ON THE SHOW, WE
VISITED THE TOWN OF PORT
CLINTON, OHIO, WHERE
INCREASINGLY THE HAVES AND THE
HAVE-NOTS ARE BECOMING
SEGREGATED.
TODAY, WE LOOK AT HOW RESIDENTS
ARE TRYING TO BRIDGE THAT GAP
AND HOW UNSTRUCTURED PLAY IS
GIVING CHILDREN FROM ALL WALKS
OF LIFE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ENGAGE WITH EACH OTHER.
READ MORE ABOUT THAT COMMUNITY'S
CLASS DIVIDE AND HOW THEY'RE
TRYING TO COMBAT IT, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: CHALLENGES IN ISRAEL
AND IRAN, MONEY DEBATES ON
CAPITOL HILL, AND DEEP INSIDE
THE 2016 CAMPAIGN.
BIBI, BUDGETS AND BIG DOLLARS.
WE TAKE YOU BEHIND THE SCENES,
TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON WEEK,
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, THE STORY OF
AN AMERICAN ARMY VETERAN WHO HAS
JOINED A MILITIA IN IRAQ TO
FIGHT ISIS AND "DEFEND
CHRISTIANITY."
>> BRETT SAYS THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY, INCLUDING CHRISTIANS
IN THE UNITED STATES, NEED TO DO
MUCH MORE TO DEFEND PEOPLE HE
DESCRIBES AS "THEIR BROTHERS AND
SISTERS IN CHRIST," PEOPLE NOW
UNDER ATTACK HERE.
>> WHAT THE MESSAGE YOU ARE
TAKING TO THE WORLD?
>> THEY NEED TO OPEN THEIR EARS.
PEOPLE ARE CRYING.
THEY NEED TO OPEN THEIR EYES.
THEY NEED TO HELP.
WE NEED FUNDS, WE NEED SUPPORT.
>> THEY DON'T JUST WANT TO KICK
US OUT, THEY WANT TO KILL US AND
THEY ARE KILLING US.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
WITH A LOOK AT SHAKEN BABY
SYNDROME, THE TRAGEDY OF DEAD
CHILDREN AND MISDIAGNOSES THAT
HAVE SENT SOME PARENTS TO
PRISON.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.